# thesis_GPU_parallel_Eulicdean_Minimum_Spanning_Tree_-_Massive_2or3opt_Moves_found_on_Global_Tour
In this thesis, we propose parallel solutions based on current graphics processing unit (GPU) system for two Euclidean graph minimization problems, namely the Euclidean minimum spanning forest/tree (EMSF/EMST) and the travelling salesman problem (TSP). The proposed solutions also solve the bichromatic closest pair (BCP) problem, and follow technique of ``decentralized control, data parallelism, GPU shared memories". We propose a Euclidean K-dimensional nearest neighbourhood search (NNS) technique based on classical Elias' NNS approaches that divide the Euclidean space into congruent and non-overlapping cells where size of points in each cell is bounded. We propose a pruning technique to obtain component-based NNS to find a query point set $Q$'s closest outgoing point within sequential linear time complexity when the data is uniformly distributed. These techniques are used together with two proposed GPU tree traversal algorithms, namely the GPU two-direction Breadth-first search and distributed dynamic linked list, to address the BCP. Based on the BCP solution, a divide and conquer parallel algorithm is implemented for building EMSF and EMST totally on GPU side. The TSP is addressed with different parallel 2-opt local search algorithms, in which we propose a ``multiple K-opt evaluation, multiple K-opt moves" methodology in order to simultaneously execute, without interference, massive 2-/3-opt moves that are globally found on the same TSP tour for many edges. This methodology is explained in details to show how we obtain high performance computing both on GPU and CPU side. We test the proposed solutions and report experimental comparison results against the state-of-the-art algorithms.


All the proposed methodologies have been published. All right reserved.
